pre-requites
    --> Cryptography
    --> Distributed Computed
    --> Game Theory



Block-chain :
    peer to peer
    everything here is a transaction
    transaction are noted in the ledger(like databae)
    ledger is Immutable(block-chain).


storing data in block chain :
    consider a block A contains Some data
    That data got hashed using one of the algorithms like MD5, SHA-256, SHA-512.
    Hashing will produced  key (ex :K1)
    Produces different key for different data
    How long may be the data is but the Key length is same

    consider a block B.
    block B contains Some data, along with there is the key which is produced in block A

    if the some change sthe data in block A it will produce the new key (ex : _k1)
    _k1 key different from the key stored in the block B
    This is how we can find, someone change the data in block A


    Lyk this the Data's got store in the block of chains(block chain)



cryptography :
    peer to peer is awesome
    but there is some concern, which we can over come with cryptography. The concerns are 
        1.Confidentiality
        2.Integrity
        3.Non repudiation
        4.Authentication

    Confidentiality :
        consider if A send a msg to B. other than A and B, no one wants to see the msg.

    Integrity :
        Not allowing any one the network to modify the msg.

    Non repudiation :
        if A sends a msg to B, but after sometimes A can say that, i didn't send the msg.
        So we should have the proof that A only sends that msg.

    Authentication :
        no one should send the msg in the name of others


    Here comes the cryptography
    cryptography is a two word
    crypt -->  secret/hidding
    graphy --> writing 

    cryptography means writing the msg which only read by the reciever.

    This can be achieved by encrypting and decrypting msg

    A should encrypt the msg and be should decrypt the msg.
    encryption produces cipher text, which is unreadable.. we should decrypt the msg to read.

    These encryption and decryption are done using keys

Types of Cryptography :

    Based on the key there is Two types of cryptography
        1.Symmetric key Cryptograpy.
        2.Asymmetric key Cryptography


 1.Symmetric key Cryptograpy :
    consider A wants to send a message to B
    A encrypt the msg with his own key K1 and sends a msg to B.
    B wants to decrypt the Msg with the Key K1 only.
    So B should have the Key K1.
    A should have the b's Key in order to decrypt the msg of B

    consider another User C so,
    A should have keys of B and C.

    If the no of user increases the no of key also gets increased.

    This is the disadvantage of Symmetric key.


2.Asymmetric key Cryptography || Public key Cryptography:

    In this method, Every User(Node) will have an two Keys.
    Private Key and Public key.
    Public key is accessible to everyone.

    If A wants to send a msg, A encrypt yhe msg with the B's Public Key.
    B uses its Private key to decrypt the msg.

    Here the Confidentiality of the msg gets stornger

Block chain uses Asymmetric key Cryptography || Public key Cryptography

Digital Signature :
    In the above we achieved the Confidentiality.
    BUt what if A says I didn't send that msg.
    what about Authentication part?

    To make the Authentication. we are going to add the Digital Signature to that msg.
    
    If A sends a msg to B,
    At first A encrypt the msg with A's Private key
    And then again encrypt the msg with B's Public key
    And the Sends the msg to B.

    AT B side,
    first we have to decrypt the msg with B's Private key
    And then again decrypt the msg with A's Public key.


    IF we can able to decrypt to decrypt the A's Public key means,
    that msg has to encrypt with A's Private key.
    Private is only accessible by its owner.
    So this msg was sent by A only.

    This is how we add Digital Signature to the Msg.


Nodes in Block chain :
    A node can a computer or a mobile phone.

    Types of node:
        Full Node
        Partial node

        Full Node :
            Computer can be a full node.
            if the computer has the complete blockchain 
            Then it can be a full node.
            As per 2018, the size of blockchain is 188GB

            Full node verify the blocks before it add the block to the blockchain
            Full node only large storage.

            Miners :
             Miners should be a full node, but full node need not to be a miner.
             In furture, we will about miner in details.
             we need large compuetaional power to be a minor.
             large number of cpu's and gpu's we need.
             we earn some incentives in minor node which is not in full node.


        Partial Node : 
            it has some part of blockchain to make transactions kind of thing.
            It can be use for wallet purpose.       


Hashing :
    lets see the terms about
        Hashing,
        Hash Function,
        Hash value,

    Hash Function Takes n length of arbitary data as input 
    And return the Fixed length numberical Data which is called as Hash value.

    Based on the Hash functions(Like message digest,SHA ) that fixed length can be differ.

    If we give the same data as input for n number of tyms, it will return the same hash value
    we can't get the input Data from the hash Value.
    Hashing is not encrypting.
    So reversing is not possible.


    Hash Function are algorithms
    There are several algorithms some are
        MD(message digest)
            MD1,MD2,MD3,MD6...

        SHA(Secure Hash Algorithms)
            Most using one.
             SHA1, SHA2, ShA3,....
             In blockchain we use SHA2-256, SHA2-512
             256 and 512 are output size.
             If we use SHA2-256, the o/p will be 256bits.
             If we use SHA2-512, the o/p will be 512bits.


merkle tree:
    Every block has n transactions and hash value.
    we can't store n hash values of n transactions.

    so at first we create 
        H1,H2,H3.....H10 from 10 transactions
        and then we can combine those transactions, like
        H12,H34,H56,...,H910 ....since its an odd number
        then H1234,H5678,H910910 we are repeating the last 9 and 10
        .
        .
        .
        H12345678910910910910 we store this single hash value.


        this forms an merkle tree.


Block chain Architecture :
    There are different types of block chain
    Public Block chain is one of them.
    Bitcoin is example for public blockchain.
    In Bitcoin blockchain, the Data store in the block may be,
        from
        to
        Money info

    In addition to that, there is Block header in Every block
    Block Header contains fields like
        TimeStamp
        Version - blockchain Version
        merkle root --> final value of the merkle tree.
        Proof of work(pow)
            Pow algorithms needs two fields.
                Difficulty Target.
                Nonce
        Previous Hash Value

        second block will have the hash value of first block.
        third block will have the hash value of second block.

Immutiblity in Block chain:

    If we change some data in block to it will change the hash value.
    so we have to change the hash value in third block.
    that will change the hash value of the third block
    and this process continuous still the last block.

    Still it Difficult process, it is not impossible
    Then How block chain in Immutable?

    There the POW comes into the picture
    Whenever we change the block or to add the new block.
    Block has to be validated.

    validation means some process to do before changing or adding the new block.
    That process takes atleast 10min for one block.

    And every full node have a copy of the block chain.
    so if we add/change a block, everyone will come in a conseus.

    conseus Algorithms
    50% of users should accept thT.

    To change Block:
        -need super computer
        - More time
        _50% majority of the blockchain network which is impossible.


Genesis Block:
    every block has the hash value of the  Previous block.
    But the first block has the hash value of Zero.
    first block of the block chain is called as Genesis Block.


Types of blockchain
    Public blockchain :
        Open
        Anyone can be a part of it.

    Private blockchain:
        Specially for single company.
        no of nodes will controlled and we know the details about every node.

    Federated blockchain :
        group of people/ companies create the new block chain.
        everyone in the block is known entities.

    Apart from these there are two more type of block chain.
        Permissioned Blockchain
        Permissionless Blockchain


    Public Blockchain only need pow. In other types, the All the entities are known one
    so we don't need POW
    so Private and Federated block chain is fast.



What is consensus?
    consider there are five nodes in a blockchain.
    if we want to add the new block. any one of the existing block wants to add the block in the blockchain.
    What if that block is a malicious?

    That's where we have to follow consensus Algorithm.

    consensus algorithms defines who hast to add the new block to the blockchain.

    Based on the Permissioned blockchain or Permissionless Blockchain
    
    There are multiple consensus Algorithm are available.

    The most famous one is POW(BitCoin uses) 

    PoW(proof of work) means :
        All the nodes in the block in the blockchain
        Spends some calculating power to solve puzzle kind of thing.
        Whoever wins the puzzle they will add the block.
        In return they will get some coins.

        They spent some compuetaional power, so we can trust them.

    PoS(Proof of Stake in ethereum wolrd) :
        need of PoS in Pow wolrd?
        PoW need lots of computing power
        In PoS we don't need that amount of power.

        In Pos 
            if we want to add the new block into the block chain we have to spend 
            some stake/Invest some amout to apply to be the adder of the new block.

    There are some other consensus algorithm to :
        Proof of Elapsed Time(PoET by INTEL)
        Proof of Deposit(PoD)
        Proof of Capacity(PoC)


What is Ethereum?
    Vitalik Buterin is the Inventer of Ethereum.
    Ethereum uses Solidity as a programming language.
    Ethereum is a platform where we can Create and  Run decentralized Apps (Dapps)
    To run Softtware there is EVM(Ethereum Virtual Machine) in Ethereum world
    Ether is crypto Currency of Ethereum.
    There is some concept called gas.


What is  Bitcoin?
    BitCoin is a crypocurrency Blockchain.
    It is peer to peer electronic cash system.
    It is only for Cryptocurrency.

What is smart Contracts?
    Smart Contracts are lines of code that executes on ethereum based on the contracts.


Drawbacks of public Blockchain
        It is complex to learn... In general concept of BC is complex.
        Public Blockchain is Slow.(coz of proof of work)
        wastage of resource(we need lot of power to do the PoW)
        
        Since it is public Bc.. every one can see the transaction.
        Eventhought it is Immutable.
        Consider if naveen snd 10bitcoin to Rahul..
        everyone knows there is a transaction
        but from and to is refered to as Address.

        Security/Privacy.
        51% Attack ---> BC Hacked.


What is Hyperledger?
    Definition by documentation :
        Hyperledger is an open source collaborative effort created to advance cross-industry blockchain technologies.
        It is a global collaboration hosted by The Linux Foundation,
        includin leaders in finance,banking,Internet of Things, supply chains,
        manufacturing and Technology.

    To Know Hyperledger better, Lets see what Hyperledger is not
       Not  an Blockchain
       Not a company
       Not a Cryptocurrency 

    It is an Project

    Hyperledger is For B2B.

    Hyperledger has some Frameworks and tools

    Hyperledger Frameworks are :
        Iroha
        Sawtooth
        Fabric
        Indy
        Burrow
        
        Among these Sawtooth and Fabric are Famous Hyperledger Frameworks

    Hyperledger Tools are :
        Hyperledger Composer
        Hyperledger Cello
        Hyperledger Quit
        Hyperledger Explorer

    With the help of these Frameworks and tools we can build Permissioned/Private Blockchain.
    we can use them for public BC


Connecting with the entherum network
create an environment to write smart contracts
To made transaction we need to pay som gas fees
For learning purpose use  test network.
to make the Browser as a Distributed app use meta mask extension
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WPPni-pufok&list=PLsyeobzWxl7oY6tZmnZ5S7yTDxyu4zDW-&index=19

After setup the browser using the metamask.
Use Remix Ide  to write the smart contracts 











